Alright! In this video, we are going to go
ahead and tackle the enhance owners with
contact info and pets. This is going
to be a little more challenging than
what you might initially think. So let's
go ahead and take a look at this. The
contact infos is not going to be bad.
Let's tack that out right away.
So come over here. Again, we're going to
want look at our data loader. We have two
owners that we are bringing in. Owner one,
Michael Weston.
It's always the owner one. Set address.
I try to remember I spell it.
This was a street in Miami and I know I
am totally butchering that. It's
Brickerel. I know I'm misspelling that
big-time. owner1.setCity()
Let's also do owner1... I think we had
telephone.
That should be a string there.
Again, I'm going to risk the evils of cut
and paste.
Go down here to owner2 and let's just
say Michael and Fiona happen to be
getting along in this episode and they
are living together. So they'll have the
same address and phone number in our
system. You can see that now I've had
it in those additional contact
properties. Now the problem of when we
want to add in a pet to one of the
owners, what we need to do is persist
that pet. But if we take a look at the
owner service, a couple questions that
come to rise is if that pet has been
established and saved in the system has
an ID and if the pet type has an ID or
not. If not, we want persist those and
we're going to mimic at what Hibernate does
for us. It's when it persists things to the
database, it's taking ownership of that
ID property, so we're going to take a
ownership with that ID property and
set it and create it if it doesn't exist.
We're trying to mimic what JPA is
doing, but also stay out of the way of
our object model. If we're working
with objects, we just want to say, hey I'm
creating a pet and assigning it to this
owner and this pet has a PetType. But
I'm not going to worry about the IDs
which is a persistence entity. What
we're going to do is we're going to add in
logic to the OwnerService here.
Let's create private final PetTypeServe
like so, private final
PetService, like so. We can see that we
have a culprit squigglies there. I'll
create a constructor and add in those
parameters like so, and now, Spring went
wires up this component. It's going to
add those in.
So now, in our save operation, that gets a
little more interesting.
What we can say is if...
Make sure that's not
null.
And actually, it's not null. Let's do...
like so. Actually, I don't even
think I need to do that. We'll just come
up here.
So now, we're just making a tweak here.
If we try to save in a null
object will return null so that that is
okay. So if that is not null, what we want
to do is come in and say if
that pets not equal null
now what we want to do is walk the pet
and look at them. So object.getPets()
forEach().
So now, what we're doing is setting up.
We're going to iterate each pet.
So if...
We're saying if getPetType() not equal to
null, and what we can say, let's say I go
ahead and require a pet type.
I'm going to say pet type is required,
but if our pet type is not equal to null,
what we want to do there is so if
we're saying the ID is null, we
need to save that PetType. So PetType.
Make sure we can just consolidate those
so we can say pet.setPetType
petTypeService.save().
Just to recap what I'm doing here, so
I'm coming in and if the pet type get
pet ID is null so that pet type has not
been saved to our map yet, we're going to
say take the pet and set the PetType so
to the save pet type which is a term
from the pet service, we're going to save it
and get that pet type from the pet.
It's a little confusing, a little
recursive there. But basically, we're
going to take the pet type that's been
assigned and save it so we can get the
ID assigned to the map object. So that is
all good. Just double checking our
logic here. We come in. We walk the
pets so we can have more than one pet.
For each PetType on there, we're going to
check to see if the pet type ID is null.
If it is, we are going to persist that
PetType to our PetTypeService. Now
what we want to do is come in here and
do a similar check. So if dot getId().
So now, we're going to say has that Pet been
saved. Now what we want to do is let's
see here.
I do savedPet
Oops... this time, I want to say petService
save.
This is in the iterator. I'm just
making sure. I probably could get away
with not doing this, but I'm making sure
that I'm explicitly saying that. Now
what I want to do is say pet.setId()
equal to savedPet.
This would work out okay. I'm not going to
run a unit test to make sure but because
I'm passing on that object, the ID would
get updated, I'm just like explicitly
saying that I am going to make sure that
I get the save pet and set the ID on pet.
So now, this is going to come true.
We take care of the pet type. We take
care of the pet ID, so we're handling two
different IDs here. I'm going to clean that
up. So now, we come in. If the object is not
null, we walk the pets. Take care of the
IDs on the pet types, and the IDs on the
pets. That is all set on our object.
Now we can go in and save that object.
This a little confusing because we
are working with a hashmap in
the background and we have a hashmap on
owners, pets and pet types. All those
objects are keeping their own IDs and
what we're trying to do is keep all
those IDs in sync here. So that's all
happy now. I very well could have a
bug in here. I'd like to have some unit
tests on the coverage but we're not
there yet,
so I am going to take a leap of faith
and say this code is good. The other
thing that we want to do is come in here
to our data loader and let's add a
couple of dogs.
So now, we can say pet equals
I'll say setPetType.
I'm surprised our pet doesn't have a
name. That could be a problem. So let's
take a double check that. Let's go to base entity
and let's check the reference segmentation. I
thought our pets should have a name.
That could be a mistake here.
The owner has pets. Yes, pets extends
named entity. Named entity in this... just
show you here. We're going to put that
system model NamedEntity. So NamedEntitiy is kind of
like an intermittent. It just extends
BaseEntity with a string name. So we'll
add that to our pet object,
like so.
That updates that. Now, we can come
over here, Mike's pet.
We're just saying birthdate to
local date now.
And then mikesPet setName(). What's a
good name for Mike's pet?
How about Rosco?
So we've
created association to owner here on the
pet object but we did not do it on the
way back, so we need say owner1
getPets().add(mikesPet).
Now let's take a quick look at
this. I'm going to double-check something.
This could be a bug. Click on that. We
see here, we have not initialized this so
if we did this right now, we'd get a null
pointer because pets has never been
initialized. But what we can do... this a
little trick and say new. We're
just initialize that with a default
value, so we're going to set that to a new
hash set, so when we go in and add in a
new pet, that'll automatically get added
for us so that's exactly what we want to
happen there. Actually, while I'm here,
let's double check Vet. We'll initialize
specialties there.
Try to think. I think that's the only places
that we had set so far, so it's a good
good habit to initialize those with
either. Sometimes you'll be using sets,
sometimes be using lists, but if you
don't do that, it's going to go kaboom on
you. So that's set up. Let's double
check our data loader. We
wanted to do all this for Fiona as well.
Let's give Fiona a cat.
It'll be a lowercase there. My mistake.
We'll call our cat "Just Cat". Fiona's
cat. It's going to belong to owner2.
fionasCat.setBirthDate().
Local date now. So both pets would be
born
whenever this runs.
Now we need to set a pet type, and that
is going to be saved
cat.
We want to say owner2 getPets().add().
We're going to add in fionasCat. So now,
when this falls down to the ownerService, owner2 will save that, so I
think we got everything here. Let's go
ahead and run this. Make sure that we
don't blow up and I am going to trust that
things do load up normally. We may have a
hidden error here again. Again, this is stuff
that I'd like to have some unit test
coverage for so...
We did now blow up, so that is good sign.
No exceptions there. I'm going to go
under the assumption that everything is
loading properly. Like I said, we're
not running any tests here. I normally
put in some tests to make sure that this
is running properly. Again that is coming
on the upcoming video. We will be adding
additional stuff for that. But for now,
I'm going to call this good and this
assignment or this issue complete.
This is a little more interesting than I
thought it would be. That was number 33.
I'll come in here and commit this code.
We'll go ahead and commit that code and
get it pushed up to GitHub.